Objective: Utilize OMNeT++ Discrete Event Simulator to simulate remote program execution,
where each task is divided into x subtasks, each with ID i, which is randomly generated. Each
subtask with ID i is sent to the client with ID i%N, where N is the total number of clients in the
network. For this assignment, focus on executing a simple task, like finding the maximum element
in an array. Given an array of k elements, the client divides it into approximately x equal parts,
where k/x ≥ 2.

Overview: This assignment is basically a direct extension of the assignment-1 of creating a gossip peer-to-peer network,
where the server nodes are eliminated and the resulting network is a fully peer-to-peer system. The network comprises
N client nodes, where each client will have a ID, which starts from 0. Each client node would
establish connection with other client nodes such that the resulting graph would be a ring topology
and is connected. Note that N will vary for each instance of the network. You can do this in two
ways. First dynamically generate the .ned file or use or dynamically creating the module in the
.cc file. Please refer to the first link in the references for dynamically creating a module (section
4.13). In both the cases you should maintain the topology in different file (say topo.txt file), which
you would be allow to edit during evaluation. You have the flexibility to choose the format for
maintaining the topology in the file.
Additionally, consider a scenario where a client needs to execute a task with the assistance of
other clients within the network. To facilitate this, they divide the task into x subtasks, where
x > N and each subtask is having ID i. Each subtask with id i is then assigned to client with
ID i%N. However, given that each client is connected to its successor and predecessor in a ring
topology, sending the task to the targeted client currently requires O(N) message exchanges in the
worst case scenario. Your task is to optimize this process to achieve a message exchange complexity
of O(logN). To accomplish this, additional connections need to be established. Your contribution
lies in determining how and where to add these connections effectively. I recommend referring to
the CHORD Distributed Hash Table protocol for insights on achieving this optimization.
Network setup Given the above brieing the detailed network will consist of the following type of
nodes:

1. Client Nodes: Upon initializing the client node, it divides the task into x subtasks. For
instance, in our scenario, it divides the array of elements into x equal parts, each containing
at least 2 elements. For this assignment assume that all the clients are honest and will send
the correct result. Once the client receives the result for each subtask, it consolidates the
results for each subtask and computes the final result. For example, in the case of finding

1

the maximum element in the array, the final result would be the maximum of all the results
obtained for each subtask.
Once client receives response for all the subtask belongs to the task they sends the gossips
message, format of which is given below. Once client receives the gossip message from all N
clients, it will terminate themselves.
Gossip Message format
Similar to the assignment-1, a client should generate a message of the form
<self.timestamp>:<self.IP>:<self.ClientID#>

Such messages will be generated by each client node after completion of every task (Not a subtask).
Gossip protocol
After a node (client) generates a message M, it transmits M to all its adjacent nodes. On receipt
of a message for the first time, a node makes an entry in the ML(<hash(M),true>) and forwards
it to all peers except the peer from which it got the message. On receiving the same message
subsequently, the node just ignores it. Maintaining ML will prevent the nodes from forwarding the
same Message more than once. This is to avoid unnecessary forwarding, and to prevent loops.
Program Output
• Each client writes to the screen and also to an output file the result of each subtask that of
receives from other clients. Furthermore, client should display the consolidated result of each
task.
• Every gossip message received the first time should be displayed on the console as well as
written to the output file along with a local timestamp and the IP address (node id) of the
node from which it received the message.

Useful Links You can follow the links below to brush up your knowledge about socket program-
ming.

https://doc.omnetpp.org/omnetpp/InstallGuide.pdf
https://medium.com/techlog/chord-building-a-dht-distributed-hash-table-in-golang-67c3ce17417b
SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS:
1. The assignment should be done in a group consisting of a maximum of TW O students.
2. The code should follow programming etiquette with appropriate comments.
3. Add a README file which includes a description of the code and gives detailed steps to
compile and run the code.
4. Name your files as config.csv/txt and outputfile.txt.
5. Zip all your code as a single file with the name rollno1-rollno2.tar.gz and upload it to
Google class room. Only one group member should upload the file.
6. Please note that you won’t be allowed to make any changes to the code once submitted. You
can only make changes to the topology file. Any changes to the code will result in 20% penalty
of total marks. The penalty will increase with the amount of changes done.